Code relates to Master thesis: Beyond a Venezuelan crisis: The Colombian response

Abstract: 

This thesis examines the impacts of the 2021 Permiso por Proteccion Temporal (PPT) mass regularization program in Colombia developed in response to the estimated 1 million irregular Venezuelan migrants residing within the nation. Beyond simply regularizing Columbia's already present Venezuelan migrant population, the program remained accessible to migrants entering Columbia anytime between May 2021 and May 2023. This thesis employs a difference-in-difference approach to compare labour market outcomes before and after the policy’s implementation in departments with different treatment intensities. As the program includes elements with the potential to affect labour market outcomes in both the formal and informal sectors, the impacts are examined separately for both native and migrant workers in these sectors. Analysis indicates that the native workforce feels negligible adverse effects. Results suggest that when the number of PPT permit holders per 100,000 inhabitants doubles, weekly hours worked for the informally employed fall by 0.535, and monthly wages for the formally employed fall by 26.400 pesos. These effects are concentrated amongst the least educated native populations. Given these results, this thesis suggests that governments considering mass regularization policies should implement complementary legislation to mitigate such heterogeneous effects and deprioritize political misinformation catastrophizing to more massive adverse effects.
